Block Entity Renderers article (#240)
FabricMC/fabric-docs: develop/blocks/block-entity-renderer.md

---
title: Block Entity Renderers
description: Learn how to spice rendering up with block entity renderers.
authors:
  - natri0
---

# Block Entity Renderers {#block-entity-renderers}

> Sometimes, just a block is not enough, and you need to add dynamic rendering to it. This is done with `BlockEntityRenderer`s.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sometimes, using Minecraft's model format is not enough. If you need to add dynamic rendering to your models you will need to use a `BlockEntityRenderer`.
```

For example, let's make the Counter Block from the [Block Entities article](../blocks/block-entities.md) show the number of clicks on its top side.

## Creating a BlockEntityRenderer {#creating-a-blockentityrenderer}

> First, we need to create a `BlockEntityRenderer` for our `CounterBlockEntity`. If your project is using split source sets for client and server, it should be put in the `src/client/java` directory, since there are no rendering-related classes in the server .jar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, we need to create a `BlockEntityRenderer` for our `CounterBlockEntity`. 

When creating a `BlockEntityRenderer` for the `CounterBlockEntity`, it's important to place the class in the appropriate source set, such as `src/client/`, if your project uses split source sets for client and server. Accessing rendering-related classes directly in the `src/main/` source set is not safe because those classes might be loaded on a server. 
```

@[code transcludeWith=:::1](@/reference/latest/src/client/java/com/example/docs/rendering/blockentity/CounterBlockEntityRenderer.java)

The new class has a constructor with `BlockEntityRendererFactory.Context` as a parameter. The `Context` has a few useful rendering utilities, like the `ItemRenderer` or `TextRenderer`.

> Also, by including a constructor like this, it becomes possible to use the constructor as a `BlockEntityRendererFactory` itself:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also, by including a constructor like this, it becomes possible to use the constructor as a `BlockEntityRendererFactory` functional interface itself:
```

@[code transcludeWith=:::1](@/reference/latest/src/client/java/com/example/docs/FabricDocsBlockEntityRenderer.java)

Here, `BlockEntityRendererFactories` is a registry that maps each `BlockEntityType` with custom rendering code to its respective `BlockEntityRenderer`.

::: tip

> When creating a new entry point like above, don't forget to add it to the `fabric.mod.json` file! Otherwise, the renderer won't get registered.

Reviewer: Not needed, just tell users to register the factories in their client mod entrypoint.
